# pandas-challenge
Due Monday 10/30  by 11:59pm

I just want to start off and say that pretty much all the coding could be found troughout the lessons, which I would look back at to help. I would use google for some of the errors, then google again for the new errors that popped up after fixing the last, and other times just figuring it out myself based off what the error code told me. After the first part, it was a lot of copying and looking at the ealier code used and repeating that process.

I used https://www.statology.org/pandas-count-unique-values/ for counting unique values. Not much to say about the beginning. This time the code is kinda spoon-fed to us the code.
I then used https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.set_index.html for set_index and lesson 4.1, 04-Stu_DataFrameShop_Pandas. The counting is done in this exercise 06-Stu_TrainingGrounds_DataFunctions in 4.1 as well. 4.2 lesson 07-Par_Census_GroupBy and https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39922986/how-do-i-pandas-group-by-to-get-sum helped me get the correct grouping and sum and means. At first I wanted to do a loc function on just the old school data to find the budget but I realized when going on to the next problem that they needed to be more similar to each other because we were going to make a table of these variables that we are creating. After thinking about it for a while I realized that I could just add up the whole budget and then divide by the number of students to get back to that oringial budget like how the ttotal students count looks. (I also had to change the school types since it was not aphabetical which I found help doing so here: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66271694/sort-pandas-dataframe-by-index-then-by-alphabetical-order). For sorting lesson 4.2 activity 08-Ins_Sorting helped me figure out the sorting. We already did the groupby function so I just had to change what I wanted grouped as well as creating the dataframe.
I found lesson 4.3 03-Ins_Binning helpful for the cut funtion and bins. I will say that adding those $ ealier for the table was a pain since they turned that data into a string, which was giving me an error when trying to use the bins. After troubleshooting to get different errors I realized that we formated that column with the $ which was making that a string and I needed to make it read as an interger/float again to make the bins work. Once I finally realized that, I found https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38516481/trying-to-remove-commas-and-dollars-signs-with-pandas-in-python to be helpful.
I did change the second labels to labels2 so that I can have them be distinct (for my mind). The rest was just rince and repeat for groupby and dataframes.

I uploaded the picture they gave with the code that we were to download. Not sure why it was there as I can't find anywhere that we needed to save a picture, but I pushed it through since it was easy just to keep it with everything I was doing.



